<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="lxpc_testing" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Testing</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Testing</navtitle>
<searchtitle><ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/lib_title"/>: Testing <keyword
conref="lxpc_conref.dita#lxpc_conref/libzpc"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Read the contained information on how to run programs testing the <keyword
conref="lxpc_conref.dita#lxpc_conref/libzpc"/> library.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm><keyword conref="lxpc_conref.dita#lxpc_conref/libzpc"/> testing</indexterm>
<indexterm> testing <keyword conref="lxpc_conref.dita#lxpc_conref/libzpc"/></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody><p>To run all tests after building the library, run the following command from the build directory:</p>
<codeblock>./runtest</codeblock>
<p>The following environment variables can be passed to <codeph>./runtest</codeph>:</p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt><codeph>ZPC_TEST_AES_KEY_TYPE=&lt;type></codeph></dt>
<dd>The choices for &lt;type> are the supported AES secure key types: <ul>
<li><codeph>ZPC_AES_KEY_TYPE_CCA_DATA</codeph></li>
<li><codeph>ZPC_AES_KEY_TYPE_CCA_CIPHER</codeph></li>
<li>and <codeph>ZPC_AES_KEY_TYPE_EP11</codeph>.</li>
</ul><p>AES tests are skipped if this variable is unset or its value is invalid.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>ZPC_TEST_AES_KEY_SIZE=&lt;size></dt>
<dd>The choices for &lt;size> are 128, 192 and 256.<p> AES tests are skipped if this variable is
unset or its value is invalid.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>ZPC_TEST_AES_KEY_FLAGS=&lt;flags></dt>
<dd>&lt;flags> is a 4 byte unsigned integer value that specifies the key's flags. <p>&lt;flags>
defaults to 0 if this variable is unset or its value is invalid.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>ZPC_TEST_AES_KEY_MKVP=&lt;mkvp></dt>
<dd>Test the APQNs that match &lt;mkvp> and the selected key type.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>ZPC_TEST_AES_KEY_APQNS=&lt;apqns></dt>
<dd>Test the specified APQNS.<p>The syntax for &lt;apqns> is:</p>
<codeblock>"&lt;card_hex>.&lt;domain_hex>&lt;whitespace>&lt;card_hex>.&lt;domain_hex> ...." 
<b>Example:</b>
ZPC_TEST_AES_KEY_APQNS="01.0037 02.0037 03.0020 0a.0031 0b.0031"
</codeblock>
<p>The separator between APQNs is a whitespace. Whitespaces at the beginning and end of the string
are ignored.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p>Issue the command <cmdname>./runtest -h</cmdname> for help.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003393?>
